Here are a few easy,
low cost ways to provide training to quickly beef up your team's skills.
The first is lunch and learns.
I have been doing these for years.
Lunch and learns are informal training experiences for you and with your team.
We try and have a lunch and learn about once a month so we
require everyone to give one or two per year.
Sometimes I suggest a topic based on trends in the industry
or features on a current assignment or we're just open for
ideas from the team members.
They are held during lunch time, of course,
at my company we cater a simple lunch and we hold it
for about 60 to maybe 90 minutes.
The lunch, of course,
is a great way to entice people to come and also you are not
impacting their work day very much as well.
If you hold an informal training activity say at 2:00 PM then
work stops or not everyone can make it.
Also, if you are in the consulting business revenue stops.
So we like using the lunch time and if it's a little longer,
maybe about a half an hour more than a normal lunch hour.
Next the lunch and learn is led and presented by a team member,
probably not yourself.
The team member assigned will develop an agenda and I will review it
and comment on it to be sure it'll be a success,
in this case you'll review it and make sure it works for you as well.
Then they create maybe a few PowerPoint slides and
conduct the technical demonstrations.
Also you can invite people from other teams and help those
other teams start their own lunch and learns that you and your
team members can attend as well.
And lastly, another benefit,
the presenter may not realize this but they are learning or
enhancing their presentation skills in planning,
preparing, and presenting.
I like that a lot since good presentation skills is a
key component to career growth.
If you want to learn more about communication and
presentation skills for technical people,
please check out some of my other courses called Leadership and
Presentation Skills for Software Engineers.
Another informal learning experience is what I call dinner and develop
and in this scenario we have real work to get done.
But the type of work may be new to the team or the team is still a bit green,
so they will need some additional training and coaching or mentoring.
Learning as a team is very effective and can be fun too.
So the idea is to get everyone together in the conference physically,
or virtually,
and provide some task assignments that we're going to do concurrently.
So basically it's like on the job training experience in
action together as a team in real time.
So we start about 4:00 PM and go about maybe until 7:00 PM.
Dinner arrives about 5:00 PM.
So we are asking the members to give up some personal time in exchange
for some good food and a fun learning experience.
This is typically led or facilitated by the manager or lead role this time,
this person sets up the dinner and develop event,
provides an assignment to each person,
and we all work on the assignments concurrently.
We like to start it with a whiteboard session
emphasizing the outcome of the event, lastly,
when over each person may still have their own assignment,
not quite done yet,
and they may work on it the next day or they are given some more
assignments to continue in the following days.
This is real handy on the job training,
done in a kind of a team collegiate way and can be very effective as well.
We enjoy this very much.
Sometimes free vendor events is a way to get some quick
insights into new technologies usually at no cost.
In this way we can learn new products and services that you may be
thinking about procuring or just learning about them.
Vendors are always having free promotional events,
either at their offices or virtually online.
Now they are, of course,
vendor centric since they wouldn't talk about other
products that might compete with them,
but many times they give you a description of the landscape of their area of
expertise and how their products best fit into that market.
Now who should you send to the event?
Okay, not the whole team of course.
Maybe it is just you the manager or just one person that has an interest or
maybe a project coming up that this would make sense for.
Whoever attends though,
they must provide a short written email to the team
with the following: the topic, the vendor name,
the reason they attended and how it might relate to the
business and any potential outcomes of that event and any
action items that might relate to your team.
We like these events,
but choose sparingly and carefully so you don't waste anyone's time.
And if it's a really good vendor event,
then we make this topic a lunch and learn where the person who attended
the vendor event comes into the lunch and learn and walks them through the
product or services and what they've learned and how they can contribute
to the team or to your customers.
You can grow your team member's skills and capabilities
through on the job opportunities.
Okay let's see how.
If you know that you want someone on your team to
learn more about say data modeling, design,
and architecture,
then assign tasks to them to give them the opportunity to actually
do the work they need or want to learn about.
If possible I try and make them smaller or more manageable tasks, of course.
Sometimes I let them just go for it, but usually I provide a mentor.
That is usually the lead of the overall activity or project.
This lead may have the experience that's necessary
so that they can in fact mentor,
guide and coach that person so they can maximize their learning experience.
Again,
not only does the person learn new things and then you get to
provide task assignments for them to learn on,
but also this approach builds confidence,
confidence is a huge productivity enhancer.
So if possible assign a task as quickly as possible after any
formal or informal training has been completed.
The longer you wait to do this, the more they will tend to forget.
That's just normal and human.
And lastly,
they also may want to do something new that may be
too much of a stretch for them, if so,
break the assignment or learn experience into much smaller pieces and give
them a strong lead or mentor and then just go for it.
So in this section we've covered some great simple informal training ideas,
lunch and learns, dinner and develop, vendor events,
and lastly improving capabilities through actual
task assignments and opportunities. All four of these work very well and hand in hand.